Excitement. This was the feeling I had when I first heard the subject troubleshooting because firstly,
I really wanted to be excellent in fixing computers and secondly, I like hardware more than software,
I find it more enjoyable. As the semester started, I was a bit curious about the subject and kept on 
asking who's going to handle it, can I learn a lot of things about it? Days have passed and we got our 
schedule. Engr. Ralph Vincent Galao was our teacher that time and he introduced the subject, gave
some ideas as to what it is all about, like troubleshooting is a way of finding a solution for a certain 
issue of a computer. He told us that it is essential for us to learn troubleshooting as we are computer 
engineering students. But after a few meetings before midterm days, he decided to end his teaching 
profession and got a new job somewhere. And then Engr.Max Angelo Perin replaced him. 

Before sir Galao left, he assigned us a topic to be reported individually. The topic was all about a 
computer system. Each one of us should make a report about a certain part of a computer system.
Mine was about the power supply. I was able to present my topic and was able to share my 
knowledge about it. Engr. Perin was our teacher the time we started our reporting. 
We have learned that PSU could be considered as one of the most essential 
part of a PC as it is the source of power and that there are many indications for a faulty 
power supply. We were able to learn its components; thought we should familiarize it in order for 
us to fix the damage easily. We have learned that a PSU is composed of a cover, disk drive 
connectors, motherboard connector, input voltage selector, power plug receptacle and power 
supply fan. And also there should be some physical care and maintenance because if it gets dirty, it 
could decrease the performance and break down sooner than expected. All we have to do is to make 
sure the PSU is kept in a clean place, check it time to time to prevent massive build ups, and should 
use a compressed air can if we clean it in order for the components not to get harmed. Checking a 
software is another way to check up on a PSU. This allows us to spot temperature or performance 
irregularities which lets us fix the problem faster. It could also show how much power is being 
supplied to which components. After all the checking, we can now start our troubleshooting. 
We should first check if the PSU is plugged into a cord and has a source of power. The 
motherboard light and the input voltage selector should be checked. We have to make sure that 
the connectors are properly connected to its designated parts. If it still doesn't work out, then we 
have to replace the cord and try again, or we just consider replacing the PSU. Aside from learning 
all about PSU, we were able to learn also the different parts of the computer system, its components 
and its troubleshooting process. It's quite useful to learn all these stuff because atleast I can now 
have the idea of fixing my own computer and not be able to spend money for it. 

Midterm exam was given after all the reporting. And then we started our lesson for the final term. 
To be totally honest, at the very beginning of the final term, I was always absent because I gave 
my attention to the projects of the other subjects and for that, I apologize sir from the very bottom of 
my heart. I really wish you were able to understand us that time because we were also so attached and 
busy preparing for our proposal hearing. During those times that I was not around, I only asked my 
classmates what they were doing, what their lesson all about and stuffs like that. I learned that they 
were able to check and evaluate the functionality of a certain system unit and a Raspberry Pi. It was 
a group work. Then on the next meeting, topics were given to be researched by group. I can barely 
remember what those topics all about since we just researched it and then passed it to our instructor. 
Bring-home quizzes was given and it was all about the functionality of a system unit and Rpi 
being mentioned above. I was happy knowing that even though some of us did not focused on this 
subject, still, Sir Max made the effort to share his knowledge and gave us consideration for giving 
us those bring-home quizzes for us not to be stressed in studying. He is so considerate up to this time 
and we really appreciate it. Maybe because he was a former student, he knew all out sentiments 
being a student. (heheh) Moving on, upon hearing that this 1000words essay would serve as our final 
exam, I was wondering what to say about my experience in this subject. I really can't forget the 
excitement I felt when Sir Galao told us that we will be having the NCII assessment at the end of the 
semester. I was really looking forward to that time because as I mentioned above, I am more into a 
hardware field. But then maybe it's not yet our time to do it.There will be another time for that, 
maybe, soon, if given a chance. Through this subject, we were also introduced to github. Thanks to 
you Sir Max. We were able to get ideas, codes and stuffs like that through github. It will be of so much 
hepl for us in the future. 

To end this 1000words essay, (heheh), I would like to thank you Sir Max for handling us, for sharing 
your knowledge, for being so considerate and for being an approachable instructor. You have that good 
qualities a teacher should have. We respect you so much Sir. I hope you won't change. Continue to 
be a good instructor and a friend to every student. We are lucky to have you as one of our teachers. 
Once again, a big thanks Engr. Max Angelo Perin. :)











